Update SDK documentation (#26329)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/porting/versioning-sdk-msbuild-vs.md

---
# Overview of .NET, MSBuild, and Visual Studio versioning

> Understanding the versioning of the SDK and how it relates to Visual Studio and MSBuild can frequently be confusing. MSBuild versions with VS but is also included in the SDK. The SDK has a minimum version of MSBuild/VS that it works with and it won't load in a VS that is older than that minimum version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Understanding the versioning of the .NET SDK and how it relates to Visual Studio and MSBuild can be confusing. MSBuild versions with Visual Studio, but is also included in the .NET SDK. The SDK has a minimum version of MSBuild and Visual Studio that it works with, and it won't load in a version of Visual Studio that's older than that minimum version.
```

## Versioning

> The first part of the SDK matches the .NET version that it includes, runs on, and targets by default.  The feature band starts at 1 and increases for each quarterly VS minor release.  The patch version increments with each month's servicing updates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first part of the .NET SDK version matches the .NET version that it includes, runs on, and targets by default.  The feature band starts at 1 and increases for each quarterly Visual Studio minor release.  The patch version increments with each month's servicing updates.
```

> For example, 5.0.203 ships with .NET 5.0, is the 2nd minor VS release since 5.0.100 first came out, and is the 3rd patch since 5.0.200 released.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, version 5.0.203 ships with .NET 5.0, is the second minor Visual Studio release since 5.0.100 first came out, and is the third patch since 5.0.200 released.
```

Reviewer: Numbers less than 10 should be spelled out, according to the style guide.

## Lifecycle

> The support timeframe for the SDK typically matches the VS it's included in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The support timeframe for the SDK typically matches that of the Visual Studio version it's included in.
```

| SDK Version      | MSBuild/VS version | Ship date    | Lifecycle |
|------------------|--------------------|--------------|-----------|
| 2.1.5xx          | 15.9               | Nov '18      | Aug '21*  |
| 2.1.8xx          | 16.2 (No VS)       | July '19     | Aug '21   |
| 3.1.1xx          | 16.4               | Dec '19      | Dec '22   |
| 3.1.4xx          | 16.7               | Aug '20      | Dec '22   |
| 5.0.1xx          | 16.8               | November '20 | Mar '21   |
| 5.0.2xx          | 16.9               | March '21    | Aug '22   |
| 5.0.3xx          | 16.10              | May '21      | Aug '21   |
| 5.0.4xx          | 16.11              | Aug '21      | Feb '22*  |
| 6.0.100-rc1      | 17.0-preview 4     | September    | N/A       |
| 6.0.100          | 17.0**             | Nov. '21     |           |

> [!NOTE]

> > Targeting net6.0 is officially supported in 17.0+ only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Targeting `net6.0` is officially supported in Visual Studio 17.0+ only.
```

> > \* MSbuild/VS supported for longer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> \* MSbuild/Visual Studio supported for longer
```

>

> > \*\* The goal is on .NET 6 release day is for the SDK to be functional in 16.11 for **downlevel** targeting so customers are not forced to update their SDK and VS versions simultaneously. However, this will NOT allow for targeting .NET 6 because of limitations in 6.0 features and C#10 features in 16.11. This is specifically for targeting 5.0 and below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> \*\* When .NET 6 releases, the goal is for the .NET SDK to be functional in version 16.11 for **downlevel** targeting. This means that you're not forced to update your SDK and Visual Studio versions simultaneously. However, you won't be able to target .NET 6 because of limitations in 6.0 features and C#10 features in version 16.11. This compatibility is specifically for targeting 5.0 and below.
```

> Expect breaking changes that require a new MSBuild and VS version at least once a year, for each major SDK release. All versions of 5.0.Nxx SDK will load on all versions of VS/MSBUILD from 16.8-16.11 as no breaking changes were made during that time. There shouldn't be breaking changes in SDK feature (patch) updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expect breaking changes that require a new MSBuild and Visual Studio version at least once a year, for each major SDK release. All versions of 5.0.Nxx SDK will load on all versions of Visual Studio and MSBuild from 16.8 - 16.11, as no breaking changes were made during that time. There shouldn't be breaking changes in SDK feature (patch) updates.
```
